Okay.
We can go to another apartment if you want.
Do you want to?
I mean, do you have that two or three page thing I wrote to somebody about what the library were?
I would love.
Princeton, I think.
Yes.
It's a recent one where the strengths of the collection are where I thought they were and what I was doing.
Okay.
Just let's start generally, and if you don't mind, just tell me about this, the genesis of this.
The genesis happened through sexual intercourse, had children.
Ask a question, you get an answer.
My wife was interested or taught children's art as a docent in the museum, and...
came out of an art background.
Pardon me for interrupting, but you're Californian?
No, I was from Boston, and she was from Los Angeles.
And I came out here in the Navy, and she was here and married her, and then I went back to school again back east.
Went to school in the east, and went back to graduate school.
And we had children out here, and in the course of having...
several children, a couple children, three, four children.
We would read to the children every night, or she would read, and I would tell stories.
And my background at that time was I was doing archaeology, and I would tell sort of Greek myths.
I mean, you were working as an archaeologist?
Yeah.
I graduated Harvard Business School.
I got a fellowship in American School of Classical Studies.
And so I spent, I don't know, 25, 30 excavating seasons in Greece, plus a couple of years.
This book is going to open in Pergamum, by the way.
I'm going to have a wonderful tour.
Well, we have some of the earliest children's material, not earliest, okay?
But we have some from 2100 B.C.,
which are children's tablets, learning how to write.
But anyway, so I read the children.
And when I'd travel out of Jewish guilt, I'd bring home a book.
I'd travel a lot.
So wherever I was, I'd bring home a story, a children's book.
My wife collected illustrative materials.
So your wife was a collector?
Not books so much, no.
She's a bibliophile, I guess.
More interested in the art part, the illustrator.
So we'd start off with the period of 1883.
That was a year she liked Charles Robert Robinson's or the Cranes and things like that.
And we were buying 25 cents was as much as we wanted to spend.
And then it was a dollar.
And then it got up to $5.
So gathering at this point, your means were modest.
Yeah, I think when I got out of graduate school at Harvard, I think I got my first job was $5,500.
Okay.
So I wasn't poor.
Her family was well off.
I never, I always felt my family was middle class.
It was.
By your day of Bostonian, is that what you said there?
Yeah, yeah.
And so, but I read a lot.
My brother and I were brought up reading a lot.
We read pretty much, thanks.
Is that for me, I hope?
Yeah, I don't know if it's for you, but I'm looking for it.
so anyway we started browsing and collecting used books out here and reading to the children one of the earliest recollections was Bruno Munari illustrated books and they had to be illustrated picture and up through from 1960 about till about 79 I think we grew the collection had about
4,000 books, various things, focusing more or less on early Victorian, Victorian, and contemporary.
In 1979, my wife died, and I sort of moved from treasurer to president of the collection.
And I had more means at that time, so the price went from $5 to $10 to $100 a book.
And when we were in New York, I used to stop at Chotsky's.
And I'm just sorry I didn't buy everything, but occasionally I'd buy a book and really enjoy a children's book.
And then I met Justin Chiller.
So I, in a sense, had relationships with certain
people who I thought were knowledgeable or who certainly knew a lot more than I did and still do.
In fact, I liked Shotsky so much and feel indebted to him and really admired him.
He's a very knowledgeable man.
I told Princeton that there were three people I would like to name, you know, different parts of the library, and Shotsky was one because he'd never been honored.
I called him.
He was the first person.
I'll get that in the second chapter.
And I thought Justin Schiller, who was sort of inherited his mantle.
And my wife got me started in this.
So there were going to be different names in this?
We'll get to that.
Well, anyway, we ended up calling it the Coats and Children Collection.
Library, CCL, yeah, Children's, Children's Library.
And in that can be many different collections, because I felt people might want to give, but they didn't want to be known as the Rockefeller Museum and everything known by that.
So there's different people who can give, or if I bought certain collections, I would keep that collection as a whole together and with that person's name on it.
But I'm wondering at what point, it sounds like it just, and I think you're very modest.
I mean, you went to bringing books home for the children.
But to go from 4,000 volumes to a chest in Chile suggested the finest children's library.
You know, you've got to take money.
You've got to take Justin with a grain of salt, because he's one of my major suppliers, or the major supplier, and certainly a guide, the main guide in building.
He's always said, focus, go for this, go for that, etc.
And I'm like a little boy in a candy store, a deli, I want a little of this.
So I buy each smorgasbord, and he focuses on either roast beef or...
Turkey.
But it seems to me that there's a point to what you went beyond collecting, and it almost seems like you... I think I was... This is a major... I think one... Yeah.
It certainly... It'll go into... Yeah, it'll go into eight figures.
Eight figures.
Mm.
Because you're building your facility.
Yeah.
Do you have plans for it?
I think they should have been improved already.
Really?
Yeah.
It's fairly... One, I read and I liked reading.
Two, personally, before I got married even, I thought reading opened windows in the world to me from my rather sheltered life.
It gave imagination.
And three, I was interested in art, not as much as my wife, but the wedding of the word and the picture seemed to grab me and grab the children.
And it became a participative with the children, not just reading, but reading, questioning, etc.
And I've always felt that was
There's a relationship that electronic media cannot replace in the early age, and I think the early age.
We haven't been interested in Montessori for the early age.
Our children went to Montessori, schools we either belonged to or started.
But I felt that education was of importance to both of us, and books were a primary tool in that.
From that, as the collection progressed, I was really interested in how children read, how they learn, how they learn prejudice, and what are the differences and commonalities in reflecting their cultures around the world.
How did you educate yourself on that?
No, why should I?
I don't know a little bit.
Oh, come on.
You said you're interested in this, huh?
Yeah, right.
So today, most of my time and most of my money is spent in education of, if not readers, we used to have storytellers come to the house and tell stories.
To your house?
To our house.
We used to have Appalachian storytellers who we met, or a guy, I remember one guy named Starkey, who was, used to be a Don Quixote specialist and
used to travel with the gypsies and play a violin or fiddle, spoke Roma-ish, and yet was the director of the Abbey Veteran, held three professorships here at UCLA.
And he was the nephew, I think, of—oh, who's the illustrator?
Maybe the most famous illustrator in the early 1900s.
Early 1900s?
Children's, yeah.
Not Crookshank.
No.
He was later.
Ivy?
Yes.
Yeah, I'm blanking out.
The illustrator in the early 1900s who did, you know, Anderson who did... Anna Anderson?
No, no, who did the... He was English...
Charles Robinson?
No.
Who did the... He did the Goblin.
He did a lot of illustrations.
Very... Most... Oh.
Anyway.
We have a lot of his stuff.
Bill... No.
Anyway.
He was his nephew, right?
1900s.
That was Rackham.
Rackham.
He was Rackham's nephew, I think.
So...
Anyway, not bad.
Not bad, very good.
So anyway, what I've been interested now, jumping back and forth, is I'm interested in education, I'm interested in teachers.
So I think, I don't know systems, but I think teachers are really important.
I'm also interested in early relationships with a child and early reading.
And not just reading for windows, but the relationship between a mother or father or teacher or child leading into this realm of imagination.
Are books at the core of this?
A lot of things may be the core of it.
but books to me is where I'm at you know so it's a little specialty you know books are maybe one of the key vegetables in the diet but I think books are something everybody can relate to
the libraries tell me, well, why do you want to be in books that's going to go electronic, etc.?
I said, nobody cuddles like your mother with you in bed with electronic.
And it just isn't the reading, it's the emotional arm around you or reading.
It gives an emotional feel to that early reading experience.
Do the libraries study that?
You said they tell you they're going electronic?
I'm really probing this.
I have a couple of books.
I read the New York Times review, and there's been back and forth in that.
I haven't disagreed.
I think, yeah, there's a place between electron and, you know, what's the new technology going to do to the old?
That's going to be my book, you know, this chapter.
I'm going into this with great, great enthusiasm.
And I happen to think there will always be reading.
Well, two weeks ago, you know Paul LeClaire?
He's the president of the New York Public Library.
Yeah, he replaced Martin Gregorian.
He's wonderful.
To put these books down, just to make them for a catalog, it's $40 a book.
Okay.
It's going to be a long time before that stuff is going to be out.
Nobody has that kind of money to do that.
And does it make sense to do it?
Here's UCLA, who's had the author of Welch's collection of early children's books, and it's been 15 years before they got around to doing it.
Isn't that amazing?
And that's why they didn't get this collection.
I wouldn't want to see him lying around in the shoebox.
So what encourages you to feel that it will be used at Princeton?
A couple of things.
But before I go into that, and there are articles, by the way, you should look at in the New York Times.
The book will be in the last year or two on discussions on a couple of books.
And to me, one of the things is that, and I'm...
I know the librarian at Library of Congress is a classmate of mine, and we discuss things.
I'm going to stay in a couple of weeks.
And he's more electronically oriented than I am.
Billington is.
Yeah, Jim.
I see the Library of Congress as a wholesale distributor for us.
That's good stuff.
I'm giving a talk down there.
They have the network, sort of the connections to all the libraries, which are not getting any support.
They can be the key there.
But I'm, even now, have a tender proposal to work.
I envision the children's area there as a leadership telephone, creating a leadership role for children, both literature, which libraries, the local libraries cannot afford, but which they can, in a sense, coordinate and raise, like I'm doing with teachers.
I think a teacher...
is a magician.
And I want to see early recognition system for recognizing teachers early and allowing them to make a megaphone, so to speak.
So what are you doing with teachers?
Well, I've set up
fellowships, chairs, reward systems.
Actually, I've got to know all this stuff.
Is there paperwork?
I sold the business, and I took the money and put it into a foundation.
What's the name of it?
The Coats and Family Foundation.
It's out of California here?
Well, it's down the street.
So,
What I'm doing in terms of Princeton, I went to Princeton.
Studied what?
Well, I got started in physics, almost flunked that, switched to history, graduated that.
I liked it, but didn't do that well.
Came back after the Navy in graduate school in architecture.
Was asked to leave.
Went to business school.
And now I'm, you know, many years later, I'm on the executive committee of the board of trustees in Princeton.
So I'm a big wheel.
And I'm interested in education.
That's elitist education.
But there are other areas of education, early childhood.
You mean Princeton is elitist?
It's elitist, yeah.
Of course, it's Ivy League.
So... Not Ivy League so much.
There are only few people who go to college, really.
College at that level.
It's that level.
And...
Whereas, you know, kindergarten's a different story.
Well, has Princeton given you a firm commitment that this facility is going to go outside?
Well, I set it up with enough money.
One, they get all the books.
Two, they have support, enough income for paying a librarian the most money that any librarian gets in the country.
and the problem is off the record the problem let me hear it the problem is that I set up such a large six figure sum for the librarian and this is a one person in a whole hierarchy and it ruined the system so I said no they said how can we do that when our head guy doesn't get that much so I said be creative they couldn't be creative I said tell you what
Divide it in half and give it one half as travel.
I don't care how you give it.
But why was it important for you to have this?
Because I want the best person possible.
And I want it immune from the cutbacks that usually go through budgets, etc.
So I've set up two researchers.
I've set up money for publication, money for acquisition, and money for a convention, for a yearly seminar.
of all the children for a three-day seminar, plus exhibits, etc.
So there's enough money generated that will cover that ad infinitum.
No, that was me saying enough money to cover.
So the president said what we'll do is in the next 40 years
They've identified six areas, they feel, of study that are not really focused.
One of them is the study of the book.
They think it's in Europe, but not much in America.
The LLC is just starting this now.
The Library of Congress is the center of the book.
Now, he feels also that children and childhood is something that really hasn't been covered in university education.
And so he's willing to put some full-time people on it.
And Princeton already uses history, economics, music, et cetera, into children's literature and things like that for their own courses.
That's right.
So this library will be a research library.
The challenge I made is it's easy to have a research library.
And for this research library, I have probably...
I have all cultures.
When I'm in New Guinea, I go into a school and say, give me your notebooks and I'll trade you some books from America or something like that.
Japan.
So I bought books.
I'm interested in...
books that are prejudiced, like books on blacks, books on anti-Semitism.
So it's no longer just illustrated books, then, obviously.
But it has to have illustrations.
So you still have that requirement?
Yeah.
I had to put some definition on it.
There may be, in the collection, I don't know, 60,000 or 80,000 books.
I have no idea, because they haven't all been catalogued.
But I would say there's no more than...
a couple hundred books that have no pictures on it.
No, the ones from 2100 B.C.
have no pictures.
Not on paper either.
Not on paper on clay tablets, right.
But that's sort of a limitation that I've placed on myself.
Now, I will make an exception for an unusual case.
I have, I think, Luther's only book for children.
There's no pictures.
But...
four-page tract or something.
Betsy Shirley was going to stop her collection at 1900, but she says, but then I couldn't have The Wizard of Oz.
You do have to make exceptions, don't you?
I'm looking for a research collection, but the challenge to Princeton was it's an ivory tower, and researchers tend to like a library where
It's like a prison.
The visitor's on one side of their desk, and the prisoners are on the other side, and there's a big glass wall, and that's our library.
And I've said, if it's a children's library, I want children in there.
And the challenge then is, and I'll pay for it.
So the challenge is how to put the two cultures together.
What was their initial response to that?
I bet it wasn't too good.
Not good.
And it still is not good, and I'm paying for it.
But I've come to the realization that
that I am not going to change the people that much the first time around.
They're not used to this.
They don't know how to cope.
They're not even very good in public relations or reaching out.
See, this is... They would love to get this... I'm just chatting off the top, too, but, I mean, they would love to get this building, and they would love this money, and they would love these books, but they would also love to be left alone to do exactly what they can't be.
So, basically, you're saying...
We're going to set this up, but we have to agree on things together.
And they lose seven to eight figures if they don't do it in three years.
Wow.
And when did this kick in?
When's the thing?
It's two years.
Two years from now.
Now, this is good.
This is going to work fine for my book.
Okay.
We'll probably have to talk again.
This is the first.
So we have a design now.
I didn't pick the architects.
but I really got in there and picked the person who was doing the interaction with it, and I said the children, because I didn't feel it was really pushed ahead.
So, ah, thank you.
Well, I'm not sure that's right yet.
Right.
So, anyway, so what happens is, and I have this lady in New York,
who has come down, and we're designing an entry into the university library.
Now, is this all going to be folded into the Firestone complex?
Yeah, they've given me 4,000 square feet on the right of the Firestone, right in the main thing.
Okay, yeah, I'm familiar with it.
Right, where the computers used to be, and they moved down.
And what we're doing is we're designing an area where children can come in on tour by themselves
and go through a book like a Disneyland thing.
And I even said we can buy 30,000 books.
Princeton gets 30,000 kids a year going through the campus.
President and I said, we want this to be one of the six top visiting places.
And at first, I wanted them to pick up a book and do something.
I suggested, why don't we have electronically in this book stuff, et cetera.
They come in, they put their name in a computer, first name, and out pops a book with Arthur or Solomon or whatever it is.
Now, there are going to be names, African names, we won't have, et cetera.
And for that, I said, this is not going to happen, though.
And I said, why don't we ask them how old their mother is, and then we put out five years later,
take plus five years and we print out ten top children's books that were read at that time.
So the computer is going to be used here.
They can take home something that will give them something to interact with their mother.
A lot of these kids are going to be from not
you know, from not the best sections.
Well, you're not far from Newark.
You're not far from... Right, so we're going to have people named... How do they... This just sounds so unprincedonian, though.
It is, and that's why the president and I are really pushing this as a reach-out program.
So he's with you on that.
He's with him, right.
What's his name?
Shapiro.
I'll have to talk to him.
So anyway... First name is... Yeah, Harold.
And is Bill Joyce involved in this at all?
Yeah.
I know Bill.
Bill, I've had to push.
Bill thinks I'm not an enemy, but a loose cannon.
I mean, they want the resources.
I don't blame them.
Well, I mean, this is sacred turf, you know what I mean?
Right.
You, in their view, are non-professional.
No, I'm, you know, Dottie Warbucks, and they want me on the other side of the glass window.
That's right.
Was there any point at which that you thought this wasn't, that you might have to try this someplace else?
Well, I left it that if it doesn't go, it all goes to UCLA.
And if it doesn't go there, it goes to a third place.
So you sound like Pepys.
Remember Pepys?
He said, I'll give this to Modlin College and they better keep it this way or it goes over to Trinity.
Right.
So it's illegal.
I'm sure UCLA would have been thrilled.
Totally, yeah.
So anyway, there is this educational component, research, plus the actual interaction with the child.
Not always.
And...
What I've come to my own education is that that probably will, the first time we do this, will not be the best.
So it will go over year after year, and it will change in three or four years.
There's enough, I've left enough to do that.
When you say you'll pay, do you have any kind of a systematic idea of how you're going to get kids?
You just can't go out in the neighborhood and go to the bus and say, come on, we're going to a library today.
I don't have to get kids.
Kids will come.
There are 30,000 kids from K to 12 years, 12th grade, that come through Princeton a year.
That's a lot of kids.
But they're just going there as tourists, basically, right?
By school buses, with their parents, but mostly school buses, from a radius that goes from Camden, I think, up to Newark.
I'm only repeating the data that was given.
How does this relate to literacy and stuff like that?
I can't tell you.
Well, my goal is, I think, as an individual, what can I do?
I can't change pre-motherhood.
I can't change early motherhood.
Those are issues that I can't do.
All I can do is say, if I can do anything, to have a kid walk into a place and come back and say, gee, I'd like to read something, you know, maybe instead of the comic strip or whatever,
What happened to Tom Sawyer when he was so-and-so?
Did he really drown or whatever the hell it was?
If I can stimulate him to want to read a book or pick up a book, that's as much as I can do.
Where it goes from there, I have no idea.
Now, is this being funded through your foundation out here?
Yeah.
Now, is your foundation doing other things besides Princeton?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
What kinds of other things?
I'm the Library of Congress.
I'm trying to do something with—I do things with teachers.
I do things here at UCLA with—I've been interested in original material, so I do it with Werner, a program—not for much money.
I said, gee, I'd like to help the outreach program at UCLA at the library.
And so they took library science, which is downgraded, and the education school, and we took two of them together and invited from the state teachers to come here, as I paid for it, and a summer program to do original research on something they wanted to build a course in their classroom, i.e., my goodness, they sent me stuff all the time on it.
what was the position of the Mexican, you know, before California became a state.
And they had the newspapers.
So one teacher did this project.
Or what was the first, in a sense, children's books published?
Or what did they do?
How did they teach children?
Where did the readers, the primers, who did it, et cetera.
So 30 of them did this and then went back to their own classrooms.
and organize a course.
They're so enthusiastic that teachers are riding so high that they've expanded now to the inner city.
If it's successful, the university is state-mandated to make it statewide.
Okay.
Now, the whole deal is less money
than if you flew across and back six times, first class.
It is not much.
In fact, there wasn't as much money.
They gave me some more money back, which never happened.
So anyway, that's something, you know.
You left, you're not actively involved in the business anymore.
I sold the business two years ago, so that's why I'm foundation.
Before that, I had paper.
I still think I'm not well off, but that's a function of...
You know, a long time.
And if you don't mind my asking, how old are you?
Do you mind telling me?
67.
I see.
And I have the sense here of, I mean, would you describe yourself as a driven person?
I mean, as a... I don't know.
Some people might.
I think things happened to me, and I think probably my success was that I was able to... Okay.
Somebody gave, one of my successors gave me, said, Lloyd...
can be inconsistent as long as he knows what's important.
And I think you can be inconsistent as long as you know what's important.
So I've always known what's important.
And I've been able to do that, understand that.
And also from my own success was I could put myself in other people's shoes.
Sensitive enough for that.
So when you sold the business,
Was it with the idea that now I'm going to just commit myself to these projects?
I had enough projects.
I'm chairman of a school, the archaeological school in Athens.
Really?
I'm big in Princeton.
I'm at UCLA.
I'm an advisor at the University of Cincinnati.
In archaeology as well?
Yeah.
So is this the first love, the archaeology?
Archaeology was something that gave me a sense of satisfaction, of achievement.
without family or last name or anything like that.
Uh, then I went into business and was fortunate enough to develop a brand and, you know, somebody paid a lot of money for it.
It was just a neutrogenous part of it.
Because, uh, everybody, my wife said, please tell them.
Yeah, I like to tell them.
But, uh, there was a time and, you know, uh,
I just think business was the end of the world.
Do you have a sense, to spray a little bit here, you know, we hear about dumbing down and kids aren't reading.
Are you fearful that, you know, the state of... I think education, I think public education is necessary for democracy.
And I think to be able to make up your own mind and to interact and to read, et cetera, is really important.
I see that disappear or shrinking.
I also feel that the middle class is shrinking, being squeezed.
And I think people are...
Not able, in a sense, to read.
I was looking at libraries, and we were talking on the computers, and I'm in a business with Gates.
Is that right?
Start-up business, yeah.
Biological.
But I'm saying, to me, computers only speed up the time or the accessibility.
But the libraries had it all.
If somebody really wanted it, they could go in libraries just slower.
Mm-hmm.
but you don't see libraries crowded.
And I think we're going to be disillusioned with the information highway.
There's going to be too much information.
Well, information is just merely that.
I mean, it's data.
It's not knowledge.
You've got to know what to ask for.
It's like in the library.
There's almost too much information out there.
It's making sense of it and using it and taking it to the next level.
And we have involved...
or an observer and somewhat involvement, computers in the classroom in the underprivileged areas or the poor areas.
And it isn't as successful as people have thought.
And one of the real fallbacks is, or failings, is that the teachers themselves are not on board.
They're an older group, and they're afraid...
Well, they don't interact.
I went to, oh, there's a foundation here in Santa Monica.
Mike Milken's foundation spent a lot of money really bringing a lot of teachers.
And they were thanking the teachers, et cetera, and they were doing a lot of computerization, et cetera.
And then they awarded the awards to the teachers, and they asked them what was significant.
None of them mentioned the computer.
Hmm.
not one.
That's amazing, isn't it?
And then when they said how many use it, I think I counted the hands for, I don't know if everybody was a teacher in the audience, but 3%.
That's amazing.
See, I have my computer with me.
I just got to know.
But they're not, and so, and here we've given the police department computers, and to speed the time, only 60% are used.
And the reason is that people don't know how or afraid to use it.
And the same is true when the teachers are afraid.
So the key that comes back to me is you've got to make the teachers first.
You've got to teach the teachers.
Yeah.
That'll come.
I mean, I know what I... It'll come.
The next generation, you know, are... When I have a problem with my computer, I ask my 13-year-old guy.
He's the expert on the computer.
No, my boy runs a teaching program now.
Here?
In computer, yeah.
Princeton Reveal.
Oh, really?
Okay.
So anyway, okay.
Let me know when you want to knock off for today.
Can I get time?
Okay.
Let's talk about, again, if you don't mind jumping around a little bit, and this is good, I'll be able to go over this stuff and maybe listen to the tape tonight, and if you'd give me a couple hours tomorrow, Max, that'll be great.
Mm-hmm.
let's talk about the passion for the books I mean do you go through these you read my book did you share any of these oh yeah I could identify with some of them you know just reading catalogs I think is a time consuming thing but do you enjoy it yeah I go through it and part of it is because I'm the chase part of it is the you know striking goal not the rarity so much boy there's an artist or somebody who really has a style
or something from my childhood.
And so I've really, I've tried to focus on certain, what I call building blocks.
In my own business, I had a vision of a wall, but I only had two bricks.
But I knew this was a wall.
Between those two bricks was space, but I knew it was a wall.
And I've had the same thing about a library.
It can't be comprehensive.
It can't collect everything.
All right.
Well, that's interesting, because there is a point where you did make the leap from collector to scholar, it sounds to me.
Not scholar.
Making available stuff that I think, like I bought, I saw an auction.
I bought children's theater material.
Children's material?
Theater material.
Two publishers, their whole warehouses were being auctioned out in Sotheby's, and
looked at the price.
It was expensive.
But I said, you know, telling stories is like reading stories.
Before literature, there was the storyteller.
There was the Homer.
There was the word-of-mouth, the Slavic bards, etc., where for 600 years not a word was varied.
The same is true in the Old Testament.
That was handed down for probably 800 years without a word variant.
And so the
The Bard had a storytelling.
It was a very strong and monotic type of thing.
So I figured, and this was a dramatic type of thing, so I went and bid and bought it.
Both two things.
And I didn't want to hear, so I sent them to Princeton.
When it came, they called me up and they asked, what did I do?
Turns out it was seven tons of material.
I love that.
Were they appreciative?
Not to.
They had to put it down below in a concrete slab to hold the space, etc.
I hadn't seen it.
But what it does is someday a scholar is going to look at it and it will be important in a research thing, you know, scholarship.
Right now I'm doing different looks at American history and how we look at American history
Not so much through the dates, but through different issues and setting up courses that way and using some of the treatises that the children have.
Or publishing a book on Newbery.
I'm not doing it.
I've supported it.
My librarian's doing it.
Looking at the illustrations of Newbery, the cuts are there.
How they've come from the adult versions, let's say, of Gulliver's Travels, back into the children's, and then back out into the adult's.
and what they say about the culture itself, how it demonstrates, how the Japanese do it differently, the Chinese, what they say about it.
So all these types of issues.
But building block-wise, the first building block I had or have was the Newbery Collection, and that was a collection which I bought through Justin
had a chance to buy it much earlier.
Is this the Newbury, the artist?
No, John Newbury, the publisher.
John Newbury, the Newbury of Woolworth.
This was his own material?
No, this was the material published by him.
Oh, published by him.
And his family.
That must be a pretty nice collection.
Well, I hope so, but it should be the most extensive, although when I started, it was already done.
So the question was, could I do it better than the British Library?
Because they got a command and everything.
But there was enough stuff they didn't have.
And so now it's fairly big.
And I said, let's do a book on it.
And the librarian is doing, as I say, on the woodcuts.
And nobody's ever done the graphic aspect.
This is your librarian?
Andrea, Princeton.
Oh, Andrea.
Okay.
So...
That's out for, I guess, the editorial comments and stuff like that.
So I'd like to see that book done.
And who published that, Princeton University?
I don't know yet.
But that's the possibility.
I've got three books that I'm working on.
That you personally are working on or that you're supporting?
One is the book, I'm going back next week to talk to Abrams about a book on folk art and textiles, my own collection.
I've given them to Santa Fe and
We're going to publish them.
Santa Fe.
The museum there, the National Folk Art.
And I'm working on Japanese inkabana baskets, bamboo baskets.
This is another collection.
So you're a collector there.
Yeah.
Do you enjoy these things as artifacts?
I enjoy handling them.
I've always enjoyed thinking about them, wondering who was it, why did it produce them.
So...
Was this thought always running through the final disposition of these things when you were acquiring them?
I knew I was going to give them away.
I'm in the process of giving everything away.
I had 6,000 items in this one collection to give them that away.
Of what?
Of Japanese textiles and folk art.
And what got you interested in that?
I was in Japan for a couple of years.
Again, this all comes from the archaeology background.
No, that came from just going over there.
I had taken a course in Chinese art and was fascinated by the landscape architecture and things like that.
You continue to travel extensively?
Yeah.
Now, this is for pleasure.
I mean, it's kind of quasi-pleasure, you know, travel for business and stuff.
I go over for board meetings and things like that.
so anyway just to give you an idea so Newbury is one and he was the first commercial publisher of children's books who did it who said hey children like entertainment more than catechism so let's go and he did he made it entertaining with cuts and with a different approach and I've
again through Justin.
Justin's been my Duveen, so to speak.
So to speak, yeah.
And... He's been Duveen for a number of major collections.
Right, yeah.
And I don't mind Duveen, you know, because I don't have time to be that smart or that knowledgeable, and he's... And I like him, so I learned.
And he's very exceedingly knowledgeable as well.
Yeah, right, that's what I said.
And he cares about the collection himself.
I mean, I think he takes as much...
I tell him it's his collection, you know, and I'm happy to give him credit for it.
And I told Prince I want him on the advisory board of that and have reelers on this.
So does he suggest to you, I mean, would you say that the thinking of, this is a question I want to ask in terms of selection, I mean, I know you said that illustration plays a primary role in it,
But there has to be more of a focus to it than that.
Oh, yeah.
So the Newbury thing was his.
The second thing was Hans Christian Andersen.
Now, they're already done.
It can't be Copenhagen.
It can't be the Library of Congress one.
But there was a different aspect of doing it, of books published in his day and his own letters of work.
So Justin accumulated that, and I bought it.
And one, there's another one now that, Perot, the first... Oh, the Fables?
Right.
So we accumulated the colloquially, Justin, with help from me, put together the 100 Best Books of Perot and the Originals, which is a seven-figure collection.
Wow.
You personally have had to... So Perot is the first fairy tale story.
Okay, so that's a third block.
A fourth block, as I'm working on now, the brother Grimm.
And again, it's been done, but what I'm looking at is what are the factors that are the Grimm's that made them do this?
How did they come from family?
What were the influences?
So how do you determine that?
Well, so I started doing it.
All of a sudden, books came out of the woodwork.
Pictures came out of the woodwork.
I never learned, I never knew that there were three Brother Grimm's, and there were three Puro's.
And each one went differently.
And how come out of each family these people who were very instrumental?
And then this book from Beasts of the Blondes, I don't know, Werner's book.
Oh, I know.
She's wonderful.
Sexist, feminist, et cetera, looking at that.
And looking at the Brothers Grimm's, how they do it through their own eyes of the period.
And I think that is true.
I don't think books are books.
I think they're seen through the eyes of the person who was speaking, writing, et cetera.
There are no facts.
So, anyway, that's another one.
I look at...
my own kids, Bruno Minari.
So I've collected all things by Bruno Minari, who's an Italian illustrator, comes out of the fascist period, goes through that in post-war, designs many things, designer, Italian, Milan, Milanese, designer.
And I probably have as large a collection of his personal stuff as anybody.
How do you spell his name?
Minari.
M-U-N-A-R-I.
Okay.
And was all the stuff kept you?
You never had the books, kept the books at your house?
Yeah, I had them here.
Yeah, I had them at the house.
So it wasn't the kind of... Until I got divorced.
And then they sort of... I took them out of the house.
Maybe not early enough, but... And then I'm now looking at the other...
building blocks for the collection.
Music is a building block for how children learn music, rhythms, et cetera.
So I have bought it.
Again, what Justin has said and what I do now is I don't have the time to put together a collection, buying one at a time.
So I buy a collection.
And I bought this as a basic block of children's stuff.
So you're buying, like, Huntington many years before you.
Yeah, right.
And not only are you buying the books, you're buying the intelligence that went into the creation of that collection, too.
And that's worth something.
It sure is.
I'm happy to pay that premium.
And then when you get it, do you...
kind of immerse yourself into it?
Or you have it and you go on to the next one?
I'm wondering if the project, if the before my wife died, we used to read, I'd say, almost every book.
Then it went down to every one out of three books.
And today I don't read, you know, one out of a thousand, one out of a hundred books.
So the project, it's the big picture.
Right now I'm interested in creating.
It comes in, you look at it, it's nice.
You saw me just looking at it?
Well, I only took a few notes because I thought that was interesting.
And you're still quite actively.
Going up the fair, you know, looking at it, picking them up.
So once this thing is in place, you're not withdrawing necessarily.
You will reserve the right, I guess, to continue.
I'm still a prisoner.
I will buy and...
bother the librarian occasion, because sometimes I'll be indiscreet by someone and say, Lloyd, that isn't it with your guidelines?
You know, I said, well, guidelines are just guidelines.
Now, these guidelines are there, right?
I'll be able to... I've set them up, yeah.
Okay, but I'll be able to get out.
I'm sure I'll be able to see this stuff.
And were there some things you were going to give me here that I could look at tonight?
Yeah.
Uh...
What I'm doing now is I'm not so much interested in the art.
I try to stay away from original art.
I do succumb.
Beatrix Potter is another focus of mine.
A very large Beatrix Potter collection, and I just bought her a lot of photo, and the British won't let it out of the country, I don't think, so there's a big conflict.
I had that problem before, and I'm not sure what to do with it.
And one publisher says, well, if we publish it, we'll let you get it out of the country.
But I have our original material.
Sendak also collects, you know, stuff like that as well.
So we both collect from the same source.
Has Justin brought you to see Betsy?
Any of Betsy?
I know Betsy.
I was over her place.
Betsy, I like very much.
I've tried to stay away to not compete.
She's American.
Her stuff is American.
Okay, Beatrix Potter material illustrates her genius in combining both storytelling and illustration.
Hans Christian Andersen material, done in his lifetime, that gives some indication of his storytelling creativity.
Perrault that records his importance in early recording of European fairy tales.
Now I'm looking at Del Noir here, and Lady, who's equally important.
The writings of the Grimm brothers and those who influenced them developing European folktales into a literary product and ultimately the basis of children's tales.
The works of John Newberry and his descendants as it created a body of printed books for children that set the tone for education through amusement.
Six, children's books on music that illustrate how children learn music.
Seven, the good of the work of a contemporary designer and writer Bruno Monari as it pertained to the development of his children's books.
Eight, early books that illustrate the process of childhood learning, how and what they learn primarily through their books, but with some additional attention to educational theory as underlying base in this.
Outstanding creative examples of the union of graphics and print created to both educate and amuse children.
Early graphic woodcuts and prints illustrating the relationship of the magister, the teacher, disciple.
These are in Canabla things.
and the occasionally unique artwork, work of art that was used in the educational learning process.
And so, in short, the collection of content should provide a wealth of knowledge for research as to how and what children learn during the centuries where the written work
And the printed image were primary tools in this process.
Now, is this a talk that you gave?
No, this is Scholes.
This memo, Masturbation.
This memo is a clarification of what the Coats and Library is aiming to do and who is doing what.
And I'm trying to provide guidelines but not rules written and concrete.
Can I have a copy of this by chance?
You can read it.
I don't know.
I don't think it's... Not that there's a... I think it
It lays out the roles of who does what and other people I've got, and I'll put the names on it, okay?
And I'm sure there are people there you'll recognize.
You'll continue to help shape the collection, both with funds and purchases.
And you've got Justin in here, of course.
So this is a growing library.
Are you hopeful that other people might throw their stuff in as well?
They can have their name in it, too.
I don't have any.
I'm building a museum that doesn't have my name on it.
You're building a museum that doesn't have your name on it.
Well, this one or...?
No, no, not this one.
Another one.
And what is this other one?
In Santa Fe.
And this is the museum that you mentioned earlier, wasn't it?
Yeah, and I've given the money and provided the stuff.
So this has kind of become the focus of your life, hasn't it, I guess?
I think education and some of these, a couple of projects I'd like to see through.
And now my life is sort of
focusing and shrinking to relationships.
So I want to give some of the stuff away.
You know, I think this is an hour, and toys, books and toys, educational toys, graphics, periodicals, ephemera.
But I'm not interested in pedagogical material.
I do have a few, like I have my illustrated toys.
I want things that were in the child's hand or the child was exposed to.
Not the teacher, but the child.
Primary.
There's enough of the pedagogical stuff around it.
That's not my focus.
So do you see this in any way supporting the curriculum immediately?
I mean, are there courses that... They tell me at Princeton...
that the collection, which isn't even out yet, the students are using the elements of it for their thesis, for other parts, both in history and economics, but for the Russians.
I have Russian books of the NEP policy for children used in school.
And, of course, even the exceedingly rare things, it doesn't bother you.
Well, I think all the Chinese books published from 1980 to 1986.
I figured nobody collects them, and they're being thrown away, pretty much.
So I said, this is going to be important someday, as a period of— Sure.
—between the Mao and— Now, where did you get that material?
Japan.
Right.
I've been able to pick up Nazi Germany collections, and also how the American military government worked.
First, they took over in 45, 46.
They took over, and they kept the same permanence, but they eliminated all the pictures.
And this is children's material again, right?
They eliminated all the swastikas, et cetera, and all the pictures of Hitler.
But they kept the same words, et cetera.
So the concept of rarity is really irrelevant to you, isn't it?
I'm not certain.
The first editions are not that important to me.
Hmm.
Sometimes Justin says condition should be, but there'll be times you're not going to get a condition.
I've lost... I don't know where stuff is.
We're looking for a book.
But you're acquiring for function.
You're not acquiring for rarity.
Justin would like me to acquire for rarity.
I don't know.
Do I acquire for rarity only...
I try to encourage you to do that.
Why do you encourage you to do that?
She's a professional.
Because he doesn't like to upgrade.
He doesn't like to upgrade copies.
And so I like him to get good copies in the first place so that I don't have to spend time.
And now that he knows how much it costs to...
To do formal cataloging of every single book, he should know why he should buy a nice copy from the first place, because it costs $40 to catalog them whether they're nice or not.
But he's primarily acquiring for function as opposed to... Yeah, I know.
Like there was a publisher was selling off all their file copies.
Warrants.
And I said, it'd be interesting to have their whole file as a document of what, for the 50 years, a children's book publisher was doing.
You know, and then Princeton said it.
Forty dollars a copy, you know.
That's right.
You know, there was a couple hundred thousand they would have to pay out.
Just to catalog it.
So they barked.
They barked.
And I could understand that.
There was enough shelf space.
On the other hand, I bought a children's book dealer's, all his personal papers.
Well, that sounds fascinating, though.
Okay, I said, someday somebody's going to look at that.
Who was the dealer?
Do you remember?
Yeah, Victoria Bookshop in New York.
Okay, I'll check it out.
Used to be a cigar smoker.
A woman?
Nice man, Milt Reisman.
When I open the stuff, I can smell the cigars.
Isn't that great?
Wow.
Yeah, I would have bought Schatzky's, except I was too young at the time and not focused.
Schatzky's files.
Yeah.
Well, those things were very useful.
I used Rosenbach's files in my book, and that stuff was invented.
Oh, these are slips and invoices and stuff.
Yeah, but to tell you what people paid, what things were... At UCLA here, when I first went to work out here, down at Ocean Park, there was a guy who had a bookstore who used copies.
I used to go in.
I had a double entendre book collection.
Like The Captain's Fags or Out Without My Rubbers or things like that, which were books for 25 cents, but you couldn't.
The Cockhouse of Felsgar, you know, it's a biblical track book.
But it has like a cute collection.
What did you do with that?
You still have that?
That I kept.
And Easy French Dishes, which was a cookbook.
Yeah.
How many titles in that?
Slightly under a hundred.
I don't want to have more than a hundred, so I have to throw some more.
Can you think of any others off the top?
Oh, um, let's see.
Outdoor Girls in the South.
Right, Outdoor Girls in the South, right.
I've seen the collection.
Outdoor Girls in the South, that's great.
And all these books had to cost 25 cents, and you could not open the cover, in other words, a gambler.
Anyway, this guy had this whole collection of old books, and he was, I don't know, I thought he was old, but he was probably in his late 60s and 70s.
And as I, during much time, I'd go across the street and just browse, and that's where I saw these funny, and the titles sort of got me thinking.
And I bet you can't even think of who the authors are.
The authors are so, they're just totally irrelevant.
Irrelevant, right.
And...
UCLA went in and bought the whole bookshop.
So they would have a sample collection of what a bookshop in the 60s was, a used bookshop.
Is it?
That's something.
Who did that?
David Zeigberg?
No, before Zeigberg.
He's over at the Huntington's.
So I try to have some of that perspective, you know.
Newer, oh, it doesn't make too much difference.
Uh...
This is stuff that's being repaired or filed.